# Listen Together

An app for listening syncronously with friends on Spotify. Join a room, queue some songs, and chat with friends.

> *Note: This is an updated version of the previous Listen Together - if you're looking for that, you can find it [here](https://github.com/hfellerhoff/listentogether-hackathon).*

## Technology

Listen Together is built with Next.js and Supabase (an open-source Google Firebase alternative).

## Project Prerequisites

1. Make sure Node.js is installed. [You can download it here.](https://nodejs.org/en/)
2. Listen Together uses Yarn for package management. While we recommend using Yarn, this is only necessary if you'd like to contribute to the project. You can download it with `npm install -g yarn`.

## Building the Project

1. Clone this repository from GitHub.
2. Run `npm install` or `yarn` within the root project directory.
3. Rename `.env.example` to `.env` and populate it with the corresponding API keys from Supabase and Spotify.
   - Create a Supabase project: https://app.supabase.io/
       1. Create a new Supabase project.
       2. In the left sidebar navigation, go to `Settings > API`.
          1. Under API Keys, copy the `anon` `public` key and add it to your `.env` file. DO NOT use the `secret` key – this will give any user Read/Write access to your entire database.
       3. In the left sidebar navigation, go to `SQL`.
          1. Copy the SQL from the repository's `DATABASE_INIT.sql` file, paste it in the query editor, and run the query to create the required database tables. *Note: This is WIP. Please add a GitHub issues if you run into issues with this command. 🚧* 
   - Create a Spotify app: https://developer.spotify.com/dashboard/login
       1. Log in, create an app, and continue to the app dashboard.
       2. Copy the displayed **Client ID** and add it to your `.env` file.
       3. Click **Show Client Secret**, copy the displayed **Client Secret** and add it to your `.env` file.
       4. Click **Edit Settings** and perform the following:
          1. Add `localhost:3000/api/spotify/callback` to the list of Redirect URIs.
          2. If you have a production URL, add it to the list of Redirect URIs in the format `https://PRODUCTION_URL/api/spotify/callback`
4. To run the project locally, run `npm run dev` or `yarn dev`.
5. To build the project, run `npm run build` or `yarn build`.
6. Once built, the production application can be served using `npm run start` or `yarn start`.

## Testing

At the moment, testing is not a part of Listen Together. If you would like to help create tests for common database/backend interactions and other portions of the app, feel free to create a PR.

---

## Project Structure

- `.next`: Auto-generated by Next.js. No editing needed.
- `components`: This is where all React components are stored. Currently organized by type or location, will likely be changed to be organized by either type or location.
- `constants`: This is where any widely-used strings and other variables are stored. Examples include cookie/localstorage keys, API endpoints, etc.
- `hooks`: This is where all custom React hooks are stored. These often have to do with communication with Spotify, state management, or interacting with Supabase.
- `models`: This is where all project-wide Typescript interfaces are stored. Examples include the types for a User, Room, etc.
- `node_modules`: Required for using NPM packages. Auto-generated, so no editing needed. Not a part of the GitHub repository.
- `pages`: Used by Next.js to create the various routes of the application. Any .js or .tsx file in this directory will be converted into a page in the website/application. For more information, see the [Next.js documentation on the pages directory](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/pages).
- `public`: Used by Next.js (and normal websites too) for resources needed in the site. The main use for this folder is to store any assets needed for the site, primarily images.
- `state`: Used for any global state management. The project currently uses Jotai, a super simple state management package. [View the documentation here](https://jotai.surge.sh/).
- `styles`: Used for global styles. Most styling happens at the component level thanks to Next.js, so use for this directory is limited.
- `util`: Used for helper functions, both generally and for specific application services. This will be used for any functions needed across a number of components, e.g. the logic for joining a room, saving/favoriting a room, etc.

### Other individual files

- `.gitignore`: Any files that shouldn't be committed to git (auto-generated files, .env files, etc.).
- `next-env.d.ts`: Specific types for Next.js. Don't edit unless there is a good reason to.
- `package.json`: Information about the application, helpful scripts, dependency management.
- `README.md`: What you're reading right now! Documentation about the application.
- `tsconfig.json`: TypeScript settings. Rarely need changing, set up to work with Next.js.
- `yarn.lock`: Auto-generated by Yarn for managing dependencies. Don't edit.

## License

Listen Together uses the MIT License. [You can view it here.](https://github.com/hfellerhoff/listentogether/blob/master/LICENSE)
